g'day guys Yost Ephraim eye and edge
here utilising Olympic lifting as part
of your training program will give you
tremendous benefits to strength power
and speed not to mention some great
gains to sporting performance and
athletic performance as well which is
why you'll find athletes at the top of
their sport we're all utilising Olympic
lifting the only problem with the
Olympic lifting is it puts tremendous
force and pressure upon barbells and
bumper plates and as strong as we can
make those bars and plates you can't
make them indestructible because of
those inherent forces associated with
Olympic lifting now this is why I
nature's brought out the 50 Mill dual
density rubber tile this guy is aimed at
minimizing the amount of forces exerted
on those barbells and plates which will
extend the life of those barbells and
plates the iron edge 50 mil dual density
rubber tile is available in two colors
you've got your terracotta and you've
got your gray now as the name suggests
this and tile consists of two different
types of rubber you've got ten mil of
high-density rubber at the top to
protect the tile then underneath that
you've got 40 mil of lower density
rubber which is designed to absorb shock
and reduce noise now built into the
design of the tile is a series of
channels underneath the tile now what
this does is it enhances the shock
absorption quality and the noise
reduction quality of the tile now this
tile is 500 millimetres by 500
millimetres and it's not only a very
cost-effective way of protecting those
barbells and pumper plates but it also
has a series of handy other uses as well
the 50 mil tile is a pretty solid tile
but remember it's designed to minimise
and absorb shock so if you lift on this
tile granted it's very effective and you
can lift on this tile relatively well
but remember if you're lifting heavy and
you're wanting to get into some serious
Ollie lifting then it will reduce the
amount of force and power production
that you can create if you do lift on
this tile now bearing that in mind one
of the best ways to utilize these tiles
is to set yourself up a mini platform
because remember these tiles sit 50 mils
above the ground if you do set them up
and you stand in the
all of them they're 50 mils higher and
they're going to reduce the range of
motion that you have so one of the best
ways to do this is build up a layer of
plywood to 50 mm and then stick the
tiles on the outside that way you've
created yourself a very cheap and
effective platform for lifting on also
to just bear in mind you might want to
put an outer rim just the border the
other tiles just to stop them from
moving around
needless to say they've also got a
relatively low bounce quality to them so
what I'm gonna do is I'm just going to
do a clean and a squat jerk just to give
you an idea of the kind of bounce that
you get out of these tiles then from
here when I drop the bar you'll notice
it doesn't really kick up that much
there's a bit of Bounce there but
relatively speaking it really doesn't
kick back that much which is pretty
pretty amazing considering how much
shock it actually takes out also - you
heard it's not that noisy so this is
absolutely perfect for setting up home
in garages or if you want to protect
floors these tiles are absolutely
perfect granted the tile is great for
absorbing force on those ollie lifts but
they're also great for box deadlifts
Romanian box deadlifts elevated lunges
depth lunges rack tools
single leg kettlebell snatches single
leg kettlebell cleans and also it can be
a great way for incrementally raising
the height of box squats and also
incrementally raising the height for
those box jumps as well all in all the
50 mil dual density rubber tile is a
great insurance policy for protecting
those bars and plates and also those
floors it's also very effective at
minimizing noise which makes it perfect
for those garage gyms those home setups
and studios for more information about
the 50 mil dual density rubber tile
don't forget to check out iron edge calm